[Autogenerated] when it comes to pricing and AWS,
a good pricing mindset to keep in your mind is the following
pay as you go pay less when you reserve resource is and pay
even less when you use more.
Resource is a good rule of thumb when it comes to pricing,
and AWS is you will pay for compute capacity.
You will pay for storage and you will pay for data transfer
out of AWS as we previously discussed,
there are four volume types when it comes to EBS and E b s
provisioned IOPS is the most expensive of all of these.
However, it also provides very high, inconsistent performance as three,
as we talked about earlier, comes in different types as well.
It's important to understand the different types and the use cases
for when to use them and when not to use them.
Always pay close attention to get requests when you're
dealing with S3 because again it is the most expensive
operation you can perform in S3.
When you want to use S3,
take advantage of something like dynamodb to hold
the metadata for your S3 objects.
That way you don't have to do expensive get request to access that data.
You can query your database to get that data to optimize costs in S3.
Pay attention to the storage class you're using how much storage you're
consuming because you're charged by the gigabyte.
How many requests you're making to S3 and how much data
you're transferring out of S3 Those will all affect the
costs involved with using S3.
When it comes to PBS volume costs, pay attention to the volume type.
Again provisioned IOPS is the most expensive type.
Pay attention to how maney IOPS you have provisioned
because with provisioned IOPS,
you specify your capacity and the higher the number all the way up to
32,000 will affect the cost that you're gonna pay.
And with provisions IOPS.
Whether you use them or not, because you provisioned them,
you will pay for them.
Also, keep in mind that snapshots are cumulative.
Yeah, they will take the changes between the previous snapshot.
But the problem is, when you get many of these,
you will begin to consume more storage and then data transfer.
Anytime we move data out of AWS,
there will be costs associated with that Look for every
opportunity to incorporate serverless options is possible
is part of your deployment.
You see, two instances we've talked about,
you need to make sure you understand the various types of
two instances and when to use them.
But in most cases, server list is gonna be a better option.
It's gonna be more cost effective because you're not gonna have to manage
a bunch of servers and take care of all that capacity.
So serverless tends to come upon the exam.
The areas you want to focus on our AWS lambda Amazon has three,
believe it or not,
is also serve URL is and Amazon API gateway as well as fargate.
If you're working with Docker containers, there's others as well.
But for the exam, these are the ones you should focus on.
Lambda S3, API, Gateway and Fargate, which is part of E CSS,
known as elastic container services.
When answering questions on the exam related to compute cost,
the following is a good guidance of what to focus on regarding the cost.
Every second that a resource is running, it's costing you money.
So when you don't need a server, shut it down.
If you can replace it with a serve URL is option.
That's even better.
These instantiate figuration is also something you must focus on.
For example,
a T three instantiate is gonna be a lot less costly
than a C five of similar size.
The type of instance that you purchase also plays a role in cost.
A reserved instance.
I can save a lot of money over and on demand
instantiate if it's running all the time.
A good rule of thumb is.
If a resource will run more than 50% of the time,
it's probably more cost effective to run it as a reserved instance.
The other instantiate IP is a spot instance,
and these are designed to handle spotty loads.
They can be interrupted and spot instances can see very cost
effective When you use them correctly.
The number of instances is also gonna play a factor because
you're gonna be paying on a per instance basis.
You remember you're paying by the second in most cases for an instance,
so the more of these you have, the more it's going to cost.
You should also pay attention to CloudWatch monitoring,
depending on if you choose basic monitoring or detailed
monitoring that will affect your costs and doing custom
CloudWatch metrics will also affect your costs.
So pay attention to that with CloudWatch and use CloudWatch to your advantage.
To monitor your resource is because you can set up
CloudWatch to monitor these instances, and when they're not being used,
you can turn them off.
Auto scaling can also be used to your advantage because we can
use auto scaling again to scale down when we're not using a
resource when we don't need them.
When there's the peak load is not there.
We can scale down and auto scaling helps us do that.
Pay attention to the OS and software that you're using because there's
questions on the exam related to OS and software.
And if you look at them, usually they have licenses associated with them.
Any time a licensed software product is involved or a licenses OS is involved,
it's gonna cost more than an open source product.
So SQL Server Enterprise or Oracle on a Windows Server 2016 box.
It's going to cost a lot more than deploying a post grass
SQL or of my SQL on Amazon Linux instance.
Finally,
the tendency that you select can have a huge impact on
cost a shared tenant system is always going to cost less
than a dedicated tenant system.
If you remember,
shared Tendencias a similar concept to apartment buildings versus a house.
An apartment building is a multi tenant system.
It has lots of occupants.
Where is the house typically has a single owner some
workloads that involved HIPPA or PC.
IT compliance, for example, may not be allowed to run on shared tenant systems,
so they may require dedicated tendency.
So pay attention to that.
Let's look at a couple of more exam questions.
A custom application with 200 gigabyte my SQL database runs on two instance.
The application is only being used for short periods of time in
the morning and sometimes in the evening.
What is the most cost effective storage type for this application?
E.
B s provisioned IOPS E.
B.
S throughput.
Optimized HTTP E.
B s general purpose SSD or Amazon efs again.
Take a minute.
Pause the video.
Think about your answer.
Did you pick C because the application is only being
used for short periods of time?
We're not gonna have a lot of activity on this because
it's for very short periods of time.
and because provisioned IOPS is gonna cost all the time,
it's not a really cost effective model, but E.
B s general purpose SSD is a great choice in this case because it's
gonna be the most cost effective throughput optimizes,
really not gonna work because we're dealing with this database on we're
gonna have random reads happening from the database.
So a traditional hard drive is not a good option.
Remember, refer back to this We talked about this earlier, and E.
F s is also not a good option for this again because
we're dealing with a my SQL database.
It's only running a short period of time each day,
so we don't need this to be running.
A better use would even be with server.
URL is Aurora, So pay attention to these types of questions on the exam.
Let's look at another question.
A Solutions architect is designing a system which needs a minimum of
eight M five large instances to serve traffic.
The system will be deployed in US East one and needs to handle
the failure of an entire availability zone.
Assume that all two instances are properly linked to the
elastic load balancer and you can use availability zones a
through F six availability zones.
How should you distribute the traffic to save as much as
possible while maintaining high availability?
Pause the video.
Take a minute and think about the question.
Did you select Option C?
Questions like this one can be tricky on the exam
if we don't read them carefully.
The question states that we have to have eight servers available at all times,
even if we lose a single availability zone.
So losing one availability zone should not drop us below eight.
It also states that we must do it in the most cost effective way possible.
So some people might have selected Option A three
servers and each ese a through D.
The problem with the answer?
A.
We'll just take a quick look at it.
We won't like go into each one of these,
but we'll look at answer A because you should be
familiar with this process at this point.
But with a it's not gonna work, because if we lose a single availability zone,
we started with 12 servers because we had four
availability zones with three servers each,
so we had 12 servers.
Got to maintain a minimum of eight.
We lose one, ese.
We're gonna lose three servers that is gonna leave us at nine servers.
That's more than the eighth that we need.
And it's not as cost effective as one of the other options.
That's what we have to look for on these questions when we're taking the exam,
look very closely at how the question is worded.
And if they're looking for something about most cost effective,
you need to pay very close attention because there's
likely going to be two correct answers.
But one is gonna be better because it's gonna be more cost effective.
So in this case,
Option C is our best answer because we can lose a single availability zone
and we're still going to have eight servers available.
Let's look at some exam takeaways for always.
On instances, purchase reserved instances like I was saying,
it's gonna be cheaper to use, reserved instance.
If it's gonna be on all the time,
look for survival is options to eliminate instantiate
costs because if we can go serve,
URL is we're not gonna be paying an hourly or by the minute,
or by the second rate for a server that's running we're only
going to pay when it's actually being used.
If we go serve URL is choose the most cost effective
instantiate type for a given workload.
Don't use a nem five when a T two will do or a T three.
Don't use a C five When you can use an M five.
Use the most cost effective data storage option again.
Thinking back about EBS volumes Don't use provisioned IOPS SSD.
If you don't need that general purpose will work just fine.
In most cases, if you have need for high performance,
then yes, you will have to use that. But pay attention to what the question is asking for a given scenario.